Design Studio for CS171 Final Project

Feedback for Rachael Smith and Anna Zhong on "Global CO2 and Energy Usage" given by Martin Reindl and Andre Souffront 

Our peers echoed a concern that our TF for the project, Monarch, raised over why the viewer should care about the visualization. It seems that our focus on the economic and human activity behind CO2 emissions is a little too far removed from actual climate change, so our peers suggested that we incorporate some scientific climate change data as the third "chapter" of our visualization. Another suggestion from our peers was to display the main slider graph as a line graph, as opposed to a scatterplot (the scatterplot was the original intention). This would make it easier for the rate of change of any data points to be seen more clearly, since a spike would be denoted by a line instead of just by white space. We thought that this was an insightful observation and made the change in our implementation.

In general, we found the feedback to be helpful and fair. We agree with these suggestions, although we might consider addressing the concern about making our data more directly relevant to climate change differently. Instead of incorporating scientific data, we could contextualize our visualization using an initial landing page for our website before users begin interacting with the data. This is a lower priority on our features list (although rest assured, it will be done because we understand that it's important for people to be motivated to care about the visualization), so we will experiment with it after the first milestone.